#wireguard #docker #arch #linux
Today I tried to experiment with the [[WireGuard]]. I didn't want to invest much time into setting up VMs, so I had a (naive) idea that I would use [[Docker]] instead. 

As I want to expand my knowledge around different distros, my base docker image for experimenting was Arch Linux `docker pull archlinux`.

Arch comes bare bones compared to Debian (dah) that I'm more familiar. After attaching to a shell (preferably `bash`, and not `sh`, as bash is more modern version of sh), the following commands must be run to make it somewhat usable:
```Shell
pacman -Syu
pacman -S --noconfirm wireguard-tools vim sudo
```

`pacman -Syu` - wakes up pacman and allows to add new packages. While [official docker documentation](https://hub.docker.com/_/archlinux)only suggest to run this command, it's a must, as nothing will work without it
`pacman -S --noconfirm vim sudo` - I didn't find any other way to suppress annoying confirmation messages during install, and if I want to make it more robust and programmatical, it is a must. As of know, I'll stick with `--noconfirm` until I find out how to properly use pacman. Also, it was surprising to find out that sudo wasn't part of the default image.

But before I was able to jump into the shell, I needed to attach to the container. As I'm still learning how to interact with docker, it took me some time to figure this out. If a docker container is not started just right, the container get's into a stopped state, and there were some issues to connect back to it. Long story shot, run this:
`docker run -it --name <container_name> <image_name> </bin/bash>`
and if you want to re-attach to the container, run this:
`docker start -ai <container_name>`

After playing around with the set up process, I found out, that the docker deamon is pretty picky about container permissions during the set up. As I didn't wanna kill my current testing container, and wanted to allow it to make changes to the network, I went on a side quest figuring out where now days container configs are stored on [[Windows]] (last known location `C:\Users\<username>\AppData\Roaming\Docker`, but I didn't find it there).

Going back to properly starting the container, I end up with the following command: `docker run --cap-add=NET_ADMIN -p 51820:51820 -it --name server archlinux /bin/bash`

At some point, as a `root` user I went as far as running the following command to set up [[WireGuard]]:
```bash
umask 077&& mkdir -p /etc/wireguard && cd /etc/wireguard
wg genkey | tee privatekey | wg pubkey > publickey
touch /etc/wireguard/wg0.conf
```

Configuration file for the wireguard server:
```
[Interface]
Address = 10.3.0.1/24
ListenPort = 51820
PrivateKey = <server_private_key>

[Peer]
PublicKey = <peer_public_key>
AllowedIPs = 10.3.0.6/32
Endpoint = intra.domain.net:51820
PresharedKey = <pre_shared_key>
```

Going back to the command line and I got stuck on the last command:
```shell
ip link add dev wg0 type wireguard
ip address add dev wg0 10.13.0.1/24
ip link set wg0 up
wg setconf wg0  /etc/wireguard/wg0.conf
iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -o eth0 -j MASQUERADE
sysctl net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1
```
There were some issues with this variable in an Arch container,
and the nail in the coffin was the following. I need to enable interface at boot with `sudo systemctl enable wg-quick@wg0`, but container didn't have `init` set up do finish it.

So I went back to the drawing board, and decided to try [WireGuard image ](https://hub.docker.com/r/linuxserver/wireguard). A little bit of tinkering with the `compose.yaml` and I had server running. Unfortunately, running client wasn't as easy. 

I'm going to go back to my new server that I made out of my old gaming laptop [[Dell G7 15 7588]]. 
I performed an extensive research around which OS to use. I end up picking Debian (yeah, I know, lame choice), as I want the server to be stable and support virtualization software. 
